---
title: "prettier than ever"
date: "Jan 29, 2023"
banner:
    file: "catmakeup.webp"
    alt: "a cat being brushed with a powder makeup brush"
---
this version brings many visual improvements and a completely revamped "about" tab.

what's new in "about" tab:
- all information is now split into collapsible sections, making it easier to navigate.
- added privacy policy to further prove that none of your data is collected.
- added emoji to the page title to make it look consistent with other pages.
- added mastodon account handle and link.
- there are now short notes at the end of each section.
- other changes that are too small to describe. just go check it out!

visual improvements:
- less wasted space: paddings and margins have been reduced and optimized for usability, consistency, and overall beauty.
- all [links](https://youtu.be/dQw4w9WgXcQ) are now in italic. it's much easier to tell them apart from <span class="text-backdrop">regular highlights</span>.
- error popup no longer looks broken and out of place.
- download popup now has a proper close button, not something from 2.x era.
- emoji are no longer selectable or draggable.
- better scalability: desktop layout for home screen is shown if device viewport is wide enough to fit in three action buttons.
- page shouldn't look broken on phones in landscape mode (i still highly recommend using cobalt in portrait mode).
- removed bulletpoint padding. it was unnecessary.
- updated some service names.

as always, you can suggest features or report bugs on any platform listed in the "support" section of about tab.

thank you for using cobalt. i hope you have a good day :)